factor or tool or instrument of the
President of the United States in waging
what is continuing today this new world
order of george bush or new
international order seems to me to be
nothing more really than the
institutionalization of the north-south
dimension of the old Cold War that is
the war against the third world for
control of their natural resources their
labor and their markets that is where
the fighting really took place as in
Vietnam this north-south dimension of
the Cold War the war against the third
world continues today as we sit here
with all its racist content and we and
our allies that is the United States and
its allies are just as dependent if not
more on the resources of these countries
in the third world as they ever were and
that dependency is not going to
disappear it's going to keep on growing
through the years so what I think Bush
has in mind is through this Persian Gulf
crisis to send a message to any aspiring
third world leader that third world
radical nationalism will not be
tolerated is a way in which in fact we
are beginning to treat the third world
or continuing to treat the third world
like we treat third world people right
here in the United States they know
their place they have a role to perform
and they are expected to do it if they
don't if they make trouble they're going
to be smashed that is what happened of
course with Iraq I believe that Bush
encouraged the Hussein administration
and Saddam Hussein himself to believe
that they could get away with taking
over Kuwait with impunity and there are
many signs that point in this direction
Iraq never really formally recognized
the independence of Kuwait they have
always claimed that Kuwait was part of
the Iraq taken away by British
imperialism which is indeed the case
last April Assistant Secretary of State
John Kelly testified testified before
congress that the United States had no
commitment to defend Kuwait on july 25th
the US ambassador to to Iraq April
Glaspie meets with the same among other
things the US ambassador says to say mr.
president I have a direct instruction
from Secretary of State Baker to
emphasize to you that the United States
has quote unquote no opinion on your
disputes with Kuwait particularly your
border disputes with Kuwait she also
said I have an instruction from
President Bush to seek better relations
with Iraq president Hussein in response
in several places says that what Kuwait
is doing through its over production is
the equivalent to war against Iraq they
are destroying the Iraqi economy he said
and we are going to take strong action
he as much as said that they were going
to go to war well in this meeting with
those 100,000 troops on the border not
one word from the US ambassador of
warning to hossain not to invade well
put all those things together and you
have to ask yourself the question why
did the Bush administration do nothing
during that last week between the
ambassador's meeting with the sane and
the invasion itself to prevent that
invasion they knew those 100,000 troops
were there but not at one word from
Blass be to the same about it my
conclusion is that they wanted the
invasion that this was the site selected
for the new international crisis that
would congest off' i continuation of the
war economy in the United States it was
totally avoidable objectively speaking
but because of the tradition in the
United States after all we are a warrior
culture we do still live in the age of
imperialism and the demands of this
system required this crisis I go back to
the CIA for just a moment because it's
worth recalling that the agency from the
very beginning from the very beginning
in the 1940s was used not only to
collect intelligence from around the
world processes and presented to
policymakers like the president for
their decisions or to help them in their
decisions obviously that's what
it an intelligent service should do but
the CIA was used all through these years
to subvert the democratic processes of
other countries at the very first
meeting of the National Security Council
which was set up in the same law that
established the CIA as the National
Intelligence Service this was October
1947 one month after Truman signed this
bill into law establishing the CIA and
the National Security Council as the
highest policymaking body and national
security and foreign affairs at the very
first meeting in October 1947 the
decision was taken to set aside ten
million dollars for the CIA to intervene
secretly in the Italian elections coming
up about six months later the CIA was
not just used in these electoral
operations you know the media operations
were vast and I'm sure they still are
media operations basically means that
the CIA pays a foreign journalist to
publish the CIA's material as if it were
the journalists own there were CIA
interventions of all sorts but one area
i want to mention of special importance
and are what are known as liaison
operations liaison operations are all
those activities that the CIA undertakes
with the intelligence and security
services of other countries early on the
CIA began to set up security and
intelligence services in other countries
for purposes of internal security one of
the first places was Greece there was a
civil war you know in Greece 1947 to
1949 the United States intervened on the
saw on the side of the far right in
Greece and the US side one in the
aftermath the CIA set up a security
service known as the KY p or keep KY p
being the greek initials for CIA they
gave the same name this security service
was used to keep the far-right in power
in greece for nearly 20 years but when
that power was threatened with upcoming
elections in 1967 the CIA and this
service this KY p organized a military
coup in greece which was successful
leading to seven years
military dictatorship in Greece of
neo-fascist strike during that period
torture became an institution in Greece
thousands of Greeks were forced into
exile I could give you many many
examples of this in Iran for example in
1954 the CIA I'm 1953 the CIA undermined
the elected democratically elected
civilian government of the day of
Mohammad Mossadegh overthrew that
government installed the Shah as
military dictator and in the aftermath
set up a service called the SAVAK this
service over the 25 years of the Shahs
regime became famous for its torture
chambers and it's assassinations of the
Shahs political opponents 1954 the US
the CIA intervenes in Guatemala
undermines the civilian government the
government is overthrown and from 1954
on Guatemala has had one succession of
military rulers after another military
dictatorship in the aftermath of this
operation in 1954 the CIA set up an
internal security service and then
others but from these services set up
and supported by the CIA all through the
years came